# group_3_project_final

Q: Does the increase in gas price drive up the sales for HEV, PHEV, and BEV? 
According to the U.S department of energy, on average it costs half as much to drive an electric vehicle presuming a cost of $2.85 per gallon of gas. Gas prices are now averaging more than $4.00 which means that the average individual is saving significantly more. Also, electric vehicles generally spend less than $1000 a year on the electricity for their vehicles compared to average fuel prices between $2000 to $7000 for gas powered vehicles. Electric cars typically cost more upfront but have lower maintenance costs than regular cars. In this analysis we discuss if increase in gas price drives up the sales of electric cars. In these three charts we see that first for BEV and PHEV as gas prices increase so does the sales of these cars at a gradual pace. However, for HEV there is a sharp increase in sales surpassing the trend for PHEV and BEV. Overall, our hypothesis holds true that an increase in gas price results in an increase of electric car sales.  
Battery electric vehicles are fully electric vehicles with rechargeable batteries and no gasoline engine. Plug in hybrid vehicles are both an internal engine and a battery. The plug-in hybrid system is operated separately. Lastly, Hybrid electric vehicles has a battery that is connected to the engine. 

Q: Does public investment in electric vehicles (in the form of sales incentives and infrastructure development) affect the rate at which electric vehicles are sold?
Despite the rising cost of gas and growing concern about the effects of carbon emissions on climate change, the adoption of electric vehicles in place of combustion engine driven vehicles. There are several factors that can go into the decision of whether or not to make the switch from gas to electric driven vehicles. In this analysis, we will look at two of those: access (or lack thereof) to charging stations, and the cost of purchasing an electric vehicle. 
In the first part of our analysis (infrastructure_analysis/ev_chargers.ipynb) we look at the number of electric vehicles registered per 1,000 people by state, and the number of publicly available electric vehicle charging stations by state. Once outliers have been removed, we see a correlation coefficient of of 0.46 indicating a moderate correlation, and an r-squared value of .21, indicating that this model is not a strong predictor of electric vehicle registration.
In the second part of our analysis (infrastructure_analysis/tax_incentives.ipynb), we look at the number of electric vehicles registered per 1,000 people by state, and the number of state-based incentives for purchasing an electric vehicle. Once outliers have been removed, we see a correlation coefficient of of 0.55indicating a moderate correlation, and an r-squared value of .30 indicating that this model is not a strong predictor of electric vehicle registration. However, upon further consideration of outliers, it became clear that there are other independent variables that can influence the registration of electric vehicles. In particular, we looked at the effect on electric vehicle registrations that the percentage of people in a state living in an urban area has. We saw similar results: a correlation coefficient of 0.58 and an r-squared value of 0.33.
Ultimately, while there is some correlation between the availabilty of charging stations and state-based incentives on the registration of electric vehicles, these two alone are not enough to develop a model for the rate of adoption of electric vehicles. As with many models attempting to predict human behavior (in this case the decision of whether or not to purchase an electric vehicle) there are many variables to consider: other areas of exploration here could include local climate (batteries perform better in warmer weather), daily distance driven, local cost of gas, political climate, among others. Further development of a model could help inform what combination of conditions is best for determining whether adoption of electric vehicles will grow.

Q: What are the primary key performance indicators that hold importance to American consumers when acquiring electric vehicles, and to what extent are these indicators associated to the sale price of the vehicles?
When purchasing electric vehicles, American consumers evaluate several performance metrics including top speed, acceleration, range, fast charge, and efficiency. A study was conducted to investigate the correlation between each of these metrics and the sale price. The findings revealed that “top speed” exhibited the highest correlation with an r-value of 0.82, while “efficiency” demonstrated the weakest correlation with an r-value of 0.38.
By combining the aforementioned performance metrics, a multilinear regression model was developed to investigate their collective relationship with the sale price. The results demonstrated a robust correlation between these independent variables and the sale price, which yielded an r-value of 0.84. These outcomes suggest that multilinear regression is a reliable predictive model for evaluating the final sale price of electric vehicles.
Additional research could be conducted to develop a model that enables users to specify their desired minimum performance levels for each metric and their maximum acceptable price point. Subsequently, the proposed model will generate a ranked list of the top five vehicle models that most closely align with the user’s indicated preferences.
